---
title: Getting Started
description: Learn how to get started with the pdfRest API Toolkit Container to support PDF processing with a containerized solution.
meta_title: Getting Started | pdfRest API Toolkit Container
meta_description: Learn how to get started with the pdfRest API Toolkit Container to support PDF processing with a containerized solution.
---

::hero-alt
#title
Deploy the API Anywhere from Docker Hub

#description
Choose where and how *you* want to deploy the world's most powerful PDF document workflow solution. The pdfRest API Toolkit Container is compatible with all of your Docker image deployment scenarios.
::

## The Container

Welcome to the documentation for the API Toolkit Container, which provides developers and organizations with power and secure PDF solutions directly in their environment, whether on-prem or in the cloud. These API Tools easily integrate into any workflow or application to support bulk, batch, and automated document processing.

Built with the Adobe PDF Library, the same technology that powers Adobe Acrobat, and developed by Datalogics, globally-trusted document processing experts for over 50 years, pdfRest is the gold-standard API for high-quality PDF processing.

The <a href="/pdfrest-api-toolkit-container/api-reference-guide/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">self-hosted API Reference Guide</a> includes all of the API routes and parameters for calling and using the deployed API Toolkit Container.

::steps{level=3}

### Download with `docker pull`

Pull the pdfRest API Toolkit Container image directly from our [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/pdfrest/pdf-api-toolkit) repository! Instructions are in the Overview. 

### Request a Free Trial License Key

Container deployments require a License Key for full functionality. We offer a [request form for Free Trial License Keys](https://pdfrest.com/container-license-key-request). The License Key is applied as an [Environment Variable](/pdfrest-api-toolkit-container/configure-container-api/#environment-variables) during Container configuration.

::alert{type="secondary" icon="lucide:info"}
License Keys are *not* API Keys. API Keys are only used in the Cloud subscription service.
::

### Deploy and Configure pdfRest

Follow our [Deployment guide](/pdfrest-api-toolkit-container/deploy-container-api/)  for information on using Docker or Kubernetes to run pdfRest locally, on-prem, or in cloud services.

Utilize the [Configuration guide](/pdfrest-api-toolkit-container/configure-container-api/) for detailed information pre-launch configuration using environment variables, packaging msCoreFonts into the image, and more.
::

## Inquiries

- Contact [pdfRest Support](https://pdfrest.com/support/) with technical questions related to deploying and configuring the API Toolkit Container.
- Contact [sales@datalogics.com](mailto:sales@datalogics.com) with questions related to Enterprise licensing.
