---
title: Configure pdfRest API Toolkit Container
description: Learn how to configure the pdfRest API Toolkit Containerto meet your needs.
meta_title: Configure Container | pdfRest API Toolkit Container
meta_description: Learn how to configure the pdfRest API Toolkit Container to meet your needs.
---

## Environment variables

The pdfRest API Toolkit Container is highly configurable using environment variables. These control a variety of features, such as maximum file upload size or CPU concurrency. The list of environment variables and their functions are below:

::field-group
  :::field{name="LICENSE_KEY" type="string"}
  Required field for license-managed versions of the API Toolkit Container only. Cloud API service API Keys are NOT License Keys. This setting also does not apply to the Toolkit on AWS. Trial license keys and further information can be obtained by reaching out to the [Datalogics Sales](mailto:sales@datalogics.com) team.
  :::
  :::field{name="REMOVE_ORIGINAL_PROCESSED" type="integer"}
  Controls whether uploaded and processed documents are deleted from the system. Set to `1` for **true** or `2` for **false**. Defaults to `1` for **true**.
  :::

  :::field{name="REMOVE_ORIGINAL_PROCESSED_DELAY" type="integer"}
  Controls how long before those documents are deleted from the system in milliseconds. Requires `REMOVE_ORIGINAL_PROCESSED` to be `1`. Defaults to `1800000` (30 minutes).
  :::

  :::field{name="MAX_PROCESS_TIME" type="intiger"}
  Controls how long a single document will process before timing out in seconds. Defaults to `1800` (30 minutes)
  :::

  :::field{name="MAX_UPLOAD_SIZE" type="intiger"}
  Controls the maxiumum uploaded file size in MB. Defaults to `1000`.
  :::

  :::field{name="INPUT_KEY" type="string"}
  A value appended to all input file `id` UUIDs to visually and programatically identify them. Defaults to `1`.
  :::

  :::field{name="OUTPUT_KEY" type="string"}
  A value appended to all output file `id` UUIDs to visually and programatically identify them. Defaults to `2`.
  :::

  :::field{name="REDIRECT_ROOT_URL" type="string"}
  Controls the url that users will be redirected to if they try to manually navigate to the server domain. Defaults to `https://pdfrest.com`.
  :::

  :::field{name="PDFREST_SERVER_DOMAIN" type="boolean"}
  Controls which domain the pdfRest API will tell users to retrieve their files from after processing. Must be set to the scheme and host of the actual server
  :::

  :::field{name="PDFREST_MAX_CLU_CONCURRENCY" type="integer"}
  Sets the maximum number of concurrent processing requests that can run; any additional requests will enter the local queue. This prevents performance issues during batches of simultaneous requests. The default is the number of CPU cores minus 1, with a minimum of 1. :br:br ex. An instance with 4 CPU cores would default to `PDFREST_MAX_CLU_CONCURRENCY` = `3`
  :::
::

### Setting variables in Docker

In docker these variables can be set under:

`services > **pdfrest_service** > env`

```bash
services:
  pdfrest-toolkit:
    platform: linux/amd64
    image: <image_name>
    restart: always
    environment:
      - LICENSE_KEY=YOUR-LICENSE-KEY-VALUE-HERE
      - PDFREST_SERVER_DOMAIN=https://pdfrest.YOUR-COMPANY-HERE.com
      - MAX_UPLOAD_SIZE=1000
```

### Setting variables in Kubernetes

In Kubernetes they can be set under:

`spec > template > spec > containers > **pdfrest_container** > env`

```bash
spec:
  template:
    spec:
      containers:
        - name: pdfrest
          image: <image_name>
          env:
            - name: LICENSE_KEY
              value: YOUR-LICENSE-KEY-VALUE-HERE
            - name: PDFREST_SERVER_DOMAIN
              value: https://pdfrest.YOUR-COMPANY-HERE.com
            - name: REMOVE_ORIGINAL_PROCESSED
              value: false
```

## msCoreFonts

Microsoft Core Fonts are not licensed to be distributed with pdfRest API products but they are freely available from [SourceForge](https://mscorefonts2.sourceforge.net) for you to install. These are optional when deploying the pdfRest API and enable the following features:

- Support maximum file size reduction with Compress PDF by enabling font subsetting
  - Subsetting the fonts that are embedded in the document is an important step to reduce PDF file size. The subset of the font contains only those font characters actually used in the PDF document.
- Support font embedding, a required step to Convert to PDF/A
  - Embedding fonts in your output PDF document ensures that the document can be opened and viewed on any machine, because the fonts travel with that document. Quite literally, the necessary font files are saved within that PDF file. This is required for all PDF/A specifications to support long-term preservation.
- Expand the set of supported fonts that may be used with Watermark PDF and Add to PDF's `/pdf-with-added-text` endpoint
  - Once installed, `msCoreFonts` are available for use with the Watermark PDF and Add to PDF API Tools, expanding the set of fonts that can be applied.

If you receive either of the follow error messages in the container logs, then `msCoreFonts` is not included with your deployment.

```console
Microsoft Core Fonts not found
Setting font subsetting to false
```



### Adding msCoreFonts to the Image

Use the following Dockerfile to add the Microsoft Core Fonts package to a pdfRest image.

```bash
# syntax = docker/dockerfile:1.2
ARG PDFREST_IMAGE=pdfrest/pdf-api-toolkit
ARG PDFREST_TAG=latest
FROM $PDFREST_IMAGE:$PDFREST_TAG

# Install the Microsoft Core Fonts
# See: https://mscorefonts2.sourceforge.net/
RUN dnf install -y epel-release \
    && dnf install -y curl cabextract xorg-x11-font-utils fontconfig \
    && rpm -i https://downloads.sourceforge.net/project/mscorefonts2/rpms/msttcore-fonts-installer-2.6-1.noarch.rpm \
    && dnf clean all \
    # Update the profiles based on the presence of the Microsoft Core Fonts \
    && node /opt/datalogics/pdf-utility/config/update_profiles.js
```



Use a command like what follows, together with the supplied Dockerfile, to create an pdfrest image with the fonts installed:

```bash
env DOCKER_BUILDKIT=1 docker build . \
  --build-arg PDFREST_IMAGE=pdfrest/pdf-api-toolkit \
  --build-arg PDFREST_TAG=latest \
  --tag my-repo/my-image
```

Customize this command to fit your needs:

- You can update `PDFREST_TAG` if you intend to pin your image to a specific `pdfrest/pdf-api-toolkit` version.
- Update the `--tag` option to point the output to your internal or personal registry.

Once the fonts are added, the pdfRest API Toolkit Container will automatically configure itself to work with them, enabling the features described above. You will see the following messages in the Container logs that indicate that the fonts were found, subsetting has been turned on, and the profiles have been updated:

```console
Microsoft Core Fonts found
Setting font subsetting to true
Optimization profiles updated
```